# Specifiers and Methods

## Exercise 1 (example)

Specifiers are tags / information associated with an attribute or method that **restrict access** to the attribute / method. Specifiers form one of the most important principles in Object Oriented Programming, the principle of **information hiding** & **programming to interfaces, not implementation**. Information hiding is when the implementation of a class or method is hidden from the user, only the interfaces are available to use, so that users don't know need to know how something works, they just need to know how to use it. 

There are three types of specifiers in OOP: **Private, Protected and Public**. The private specifier, denoted by two underscores preceding the attribute / method name ("__"), only allows methods inside the same class to access it. The protected specifier, denoted by one underscore ("_"), only allow methods in the same class or subclass to access it. Lastly, the public specifier (which has no underscores) allows any part of the code to access the attribute / specifier.

For example, **self.__name** is a private attribute, whilst **self._name** is a protected attribute and **self.name** is a public attribute. This applies to methods as well.

Using specifiers in OOP is good practice, as it only allows access to classes / methods that need the access of that variable. Because of this, attributes cannot be accessed directly outside the class, so **getters** and **setters** are now required to be able to access / modify an attribute inside the class, which are public methods. In python, a **getter** can be implemented as a method with a **@property** decorator, which allows the method to be called without the brackets following it, so it looks like accessing the attribute directly (but it's not!)