# Specifiers and Methods

## Exercise 3 (example)

In Object Oriented Programming, there are special types of methods: **Virtual Methods**, **Abstract Methods** and **Static Methods**.

**Virtual Methods** are methods in the parent class that have an implementation and provide the child class the option to override it. As a reminder, method overriding is when a method in the child class has the same name as a method in the parent class, so the method in the child class **overrides** the method in the parent class and is called instead of the **virtual method**. 

**Abstract Methods** are methods in the parent class that **do not** have an implementation and **force** the child class to override it. Abstract methods do not have any code in them, and if they are called without overriding, it will produce an error. In python, abstract methods are denoted by the **@abstractmethod** decorator, which can be imported from the library **abc**. For this to properly work, you also have to import **ABC** (abstract base class) from **abc**, and inherit the class with the abstract method from **ABC**.

**Static Methods** are methods that **belong to a class definition but are not part of the objects it creates.**. This means that a static method does not use any attributes that are part of the class (i.e. the **self** keyword is not used at all). In python, static methods are denoted by the **@staticmethod** decorator, and the **self** parameter is omitted entirely.

Along with static methods, there are also **Static Properties** that are part of a class definition but are not part of the objects it creates. These attributes are defined without the use of the **self** keyword, and in python, are typically defined after the class name but before the constructor. These attributes can be accessed by either using **class.attribute** or **self.attribute**, where the latter is only possible inside a method of the same class.