# Specifiers and Properties

## Exercise 1 (example)

> This is the **third** chapter on OOP

One of the *most important* principles of programming is **encapsulation** - the practice of *containing* all related data and behaviours in a section of code independent of other features in the codebase.

This relates to the principle of **information hiding** & **programming to interfaces, not implementation**. An *interface* is a **contract** that guarantees an object has a set of behaviours - it allows external users to **use** the code without knowing its implementation.

Encapsulation can be achieved in *many ways*, but OOP supports *encapsulation* through **specifiers** - *tags* associated with an attribute or method that **restrict access**. There are three types of specifiers in OOP: `private`, `protected`, and `public`.

- **Private** only allows methods inside the same class to access it
- **Public** allows any program code to access it.
- **Protected** relates to *inheritance* - we will skip it for now.

In Python, private attributes are denoted by *two underscores* preceding the attribute/method name. Protected attributes are denoted by *one underscore* instead, and public attributes have *no underscores*.

For example, `self.__name` is a private attribute, whilst `self._name` is a protected attribute and `self.name` is a public attribute. This applies to methods as well, for example, `self.__doSomething()` would be calling a private method.

However, this is **only a convention** - you can still technically access private variables as the variables are only *name-mangled*. Python's principle is to not restrict programmers but just facilitate good practice.

Now that internal attributes are **not accessible by outside code**, we need a way to make certain attributes visible. This is done with **getters** and **setters**, methods of the form `get_<attribute>` and `set_<attribute>` that provide outside access to the attribute.
