# Specifiers and Properties

## Exercise 5 (example)

Every design pattern has a **proper** way it should be used, and it is no surprise that using *getters and setters* **improperly** in OOP can lead to design flaws and *breaking* of core OOP principles.

Recall that the **principle of encapsulation** is to bundle *data* and *behaviours* into a single unit, so that only the **interface** is exposed and internal data is *inaccessible* to outside users.

One *common* mistake when using getters and setters is **adding getters and setters for every attribute** - this is only marginally better than making those attributes public. Out of the two, *setters* are by far the most problematic, as they allow external code to modify the object.

Instead of *getting* the attributes to do the computation, we should **make the object do the computation** and *ask* for its result - this is in line with how objects *behave naturally*. For example, a bank account typically does not have a **set balance behaviour** - you can deposit money and withdraw money. 

In addition, some attributes **should not have setters at all** - for example, `Dog.getWeight()` makes sense but `Dog.setWeight(1.2)` does not make any sense; it is not physically feasible to *set* the weight of a dog.

**TLDR** - getters are acceptable as long as they are necessary. Setters should be generally avoided as often objects will have *explicit behaviours* like `BankAccount.withdraw` rather than setters - think twice before writing **all** the acccessors for an object. Sometimes, objects are used *internally* and their purpose is purely to store named fields - in this case, just use a `dataclass`.

