# Introduction to object-oriented programming

## Exercise 4 (example)

By including **methods** within the `Board` dataclass instead of loosely related functions, we can **encapsulate** the implementation of the Tic Tac Toe board all in one object - the `Board` object.

Notice how we call methods using *dot* syntax: First comes the object, then a dot `.`, then the method name, then the arguments in brackets.

In addition, notice that **every method**'s first argument must be `self`, a reference to the object the class creates. This is identical to the `BoardState` parameter in Exercise 3 - a reference to the object's internal state.

It is now clear **what** *object-oriented programming* actually achieves - it achieves organisation of code via **classes**, which define objects that have both *data* and *methods* to operate on that data. Most importantly, each object has a **single responsibility** - programmers can work on a section of code without being involved in other sections.

Object-oriented programming has **four main pillars**:

1. Abstraction
2. Encapsulation
3. Inheritance
4. Polymorphism

In our case, **abstraction** is used as instead of thinking about individual variables and functions - we think about a *single object* with properties and behaviours.

However, **encapsulation** is not fully achieved - notice that we can still access attributes such as `Board.grid` **outside** the class; this is unnecessary and allows external code to change the behaviour of the object.

Furthermore, **creating** a new `Board` object is still difficult - we have to create a new 2D array and set the initial turn; it would be better to do this automatically.
