# Interlude: proof by induction

## Exercise 1 (example)

You have likely already studied induction on the natural numbers. To prove a statement `P(n)` for all natural numbers
`n`, it suffices to prove:
- `P(0)` is true
- If `P(k)` is true, then so is `P(k+1)`

Recalling that `succ` is simply the function that returns the next natural number, we can write the second requirement
as `P(k) ⇒ P(succ(k))`.

If the base case and inductive step are proven, we can imagine constructing a proof from any given natural number `n`.
We can express
```
n ≡ succ(succ(... succ(0))... )
    |________________|
         n times
```
and thus chain together the proof of `P(0)` with n copies of the proof of `P(k) ⇒ P(succ(k))` to get a proof of `P(n)`.

This relies on the fact that all natural numbers can be expressed as either
- `0`; or
- `succ(k)` for some smaller natural number `k`
In fact, this property can serve as a definition of natural numbers, called an inductive definition.

> More specifically, the set of natural numbers is the smallest set `S` such that `0 ∈ S` and
> `forall k in S. succ(k) in S` (we say "the smallest set closed under these rules"). You can even think of `succ` as a
> formal function – just a label that can be added to or removed from a natural number – and then define addition in
> terms of `succ`, rather than defining `succ(k) = k + 1`. This leads to the Peano axioms and the basis for arithmetic.

Opposite is a proof that, for every number `n`, either `n` is even or `succ(n)` is even. We have used a definition of
"even" that is designed to work with induction, though it may not be the obvious definition. The definition is that:
- `0` is even
- If `k` is even, then `succ(succ(k))` is even
This is again an inductive definition.

Even though they are now about natural numbers, our proofs continue to be very pedantic and to follow from first
principles. We are allowed to use the definition given for numbers, and anything we have already proven, but no facts
from outside the course, even "obvious" ones.

The proof opposite involves some casework. The induction is inherently divided into two cases: one proving the statement
for `0`, and one proving the inductive step. The inductive step, in turn, is divided into two cases, one for when
`k` is even and one for when `succ(k)` is even. Like in Python, we use indentation to demarcate the cases.
