# Interlude: proof by induction

## Exercise 3 (task)

### Induction in general

Induction applies not only to natural numbers, but to all data types that can be given an inductive definition.
Sometimes you can prove things about lists by inducting on their length, but we will learn how to induct not on some
number associated with the list, but on the structure of the list itself.

This kind of induction is sometimes called "structural induction" to distinguish it from induction on natural numbers;
but that distinction should not be drawn! If we understand natural numbers as defined in terms of `0` and `succ`, then
induction on natural numbers *is* structural induction.

### Defining lists

First we give an inductive definition to lists. Every list is either empty or has a first element. That is, a list is
either:
- The empty list
- The first element followed by the remainder of the list

In Python, the former is called `[]` and the latter may be expressed `[x] + xs`, where `x` is the first element and `xs`
(the plural of `x`, pronounced "exes") is the remainder of the list. However, since we are working with mathematics, not
code, we will use different names:
- The empty list is called `nil`
- The operation which prepends a new first element to a list is called "cons" (short for construct) and written `:`. So
  the second case for what a list may be is `x : xs` ("ex cons exes").

For example:
- `[x] ≡ [x] + [] ≡ [x] + nil ≡ x : nil`
- `[x, y, z] ≡ [x] + ([y] + ([z] + [])) ≡ x : (y : (z : nil))`

If several cons operations occur in sequence without brackets, we assume they are all on the right – so
`x : y : z : nil` is interpreted to mean `x : (y : (z : nil))`, which is `[x, y, z]`.
(We say cons is **right-associative**). This is the most useful bracketing as it creates a single flat list, as opposed
to `((x : y) : z) : nil`, which creates a nested list and only has meaning if `y` and `z` are lists.

Opposite are several lists. Sort them in order of the length of the outermost list.
(Eg `[1, [2, 3, 4, 5], 6]` has length 3.) Remember that `1 : nil` has a single element, not two.