# Pure functions

## Exercise 1 (example)

If you are studying for A-level or just want to learn Python, the preceding material is likely enough. The following
sections are more applicable for studying pure functional programming at a higher level.

### Pure joy

Pure functional programming is a very different paradigm to imperative programming. All code is functions, and all
functions are pure, meaning they have no effects other than their return value. Consequently, imperative statements such
as assignments or printing are forbidden, as they have the effect of changing the set of variables or writing text to
the screen. We will eventually re-derive loops, printing, and more from a functional perspective.

The result can be confusing at first, but it leads to clean code that can be easily interpreted and analysed
mathematically, and a whole world of theoretical beauty at the heart of computer science.

### Functional code in Python

There are many languages designed for functional programming from the start, but Python is not one of them. We will use
a combination of built-in Python features and the library code opposite to write functional code, but it will sometimes
mean the code is clunkier than it would be.

I wouldn't recommend changing the code opposite. It won't break anything, but it may help you on occasion to look at the
library.

### Asides

> These indented blocks will appear throughout, offering additional thoughts or teasing at things to come. Don't worry
> if you don't understand their contents.
