# Encapsulation

## Exercise 1 (example)

Recall that one of the main purposes of OOP is keeping code organised, especially to allow multiple developers or teams
to develop different parts of a codebase independently. We've seen how polymorphism means objects can be swapped for
those of a different class and still have the same interface (set of exposed members), so that one programmer can write
code using an interface, while another independently writes classes that have that interface.

Caring about interfaces is not without its pitfalls, however. There are good reasons not to expose any members you
aren't expecting to use outside the class: another programmer could accidentally call a method or change an attribute
you didn't intend them to, and cause unexpected behaviour. But if we're only allowed to write certain methods, we lose
the original purpose of functions – to make blocks of code reusable – within the class.

We would like to be able to write methods and define attributes for internal use that can't be called externally. In
Python, this is simply done by prefixing the name of the method with two underscores `__`. Such members are called
**private**.

In this code, both `add` and `increase_priority` need to move entries around to create space for the new or changed
entry, so `create_space` abstracts this shared behaviour into a reusable method. But if used from outside the class,
the method creates an illegal state, with a gap in the middle of the queue. Run the program to see how public access
allows dangerous code to be written. Then change replace all four instances of `create_space` with `__create_space` and
see the dangerous code fail to execute. Note that though you still get an error, it is now an easier error to debug, as
the error message states you are accessing an invalid name rather than saying something unrelated about Nones.

You don't need to understand the whole program, just the principles of access. The program is supposed to terminate with
an error.

>>> Language note: "Magic" methods, those with two underscores at the start and end of the method, aren't private,
> though they still shouldn't be called directly from inside or outside the class
