# Constructors and Association

## Exercise 1 (example)

> This is the **second** chapter on OOP

Previously, we made use of **dataclasses** that contain *attributes* and *methods* to organise code into a contained environment. However, we still had the problem of having to **manually initialise** the object by passing in all its attributes.

The solution to this is a **constructor** - a special function with the name `__init__`, which is called when the object is *instantiated* (created). Note that the constructor **does not return anything** - it is called to setup the attributes *after* the object is created, hence the constructor must **also** have the first parameter as `self`.

Notice that the syntax for creating an **instance** of a class is the same as calling a function - this is because the **constructor** is called!

The `@dataclass` annotation writes the constructor for you, but more flexibility can be achieved by writing it directly. With a dataclass, every line in the class body both becomes an attribute (can be accessed from an instance of the class using a dot) and becomes a constructor parameter (passed into the constructor function when the object is created).

When writing our *own* constructor, we can define attributes and constructor parameters as we choose.

### Extra

The constructor `__init__` is called a **special method** - it has double underscores on both sides. We will see other *special methods* that are also automatically defined by the `@dataclass` annotation.
