# Constructors and Association

## Exercise 3 (example)

Often a class will have instances of another class as its attributes - this is referred to as **association**.

There are two kinds of association - **composition** or **aggregation**:

- If the child object can exist without the parent, it is aggregation
- If the child object cannot exist without the parent, it is composition

Hence, composition is a *restricted form* of association. This distinction may be explicit not in the classes themselves, but in how they are used or how the code is conceived.

However, there are *tell-tale* signs of composition or aggregation in code:

**Composition**:
- if the child object is **instantiated** within the constructor of the parent class - the parent must exist for the child to exist.

**Aggregation**:
- if the child object is *passed in* as a parameter to a method of the parent class - most likely the child object could exist on its own

Often in code, it is *not that important* to explicitly consider whether to use composition or association - it often happens intuitively. For example, a data structure of *songs* should *pass in* songs to add, hence they are related by **aggregation** naturally.

See the code for examples.

### Note

An additional point to make, is that **memory lifetimes** are tied in *composition*, as destroying the parent also destroys the child. This is not often a concern in Python but you should be aware of it.

(An object's *memory lifetime* is the time that the object exists in memory - it can be removed by the garbage collector before the program ends)

