# Encapsulation

## Exercise 2 (task)

The relationship of a class to its subclasses is often different to that between unrelated classes. Private methods
aren't inherited by subclasses and cannot be overridden, but you can alternatively make a method **protected** to hide
it from classes outside the inheritance hierarchy while exposing it to subclasses. A protected method overrides any
protected method of the same name in superclasses, and can be called and overridden in subclasses.

Overriding a protected method can be useful to indirectly change the behaviour of a public method
defined in the superclass. It's often hard to say whether a given member should be private or protected.

We use a single underscore `_` before a method name to mark it as protected in Python. Go through the code and add `__`
and `_` to the names of methods and attributes to give them all the tightest access restrictions possible.

Since there are a lot of members to rename, you may wish to use the find and replace tool on your browser, or copy the
code to another editor before editing.

>>> Language note: Python doesn't actually enforce single-underscore methods being protected – this is just a
> convention. The style guide lists a single underscore as weakly indicating "internal use", but doesn't distinguish
> between private and protected in this sense; some conventions use single underscore for private and avoid double
> underscore entirely. Our purpose here is to teach OOP more than Python and many languages do have properly enforced
> notions of protected and private, so we choose the (not uncommon) convention of `__` for private and `_` for
> protected.
