# Encapsulation

## Exercise 3 (example)

Private and protected members are forms of **encapsulation**, the OOP principle that classes and modules should allow
only a documented interface to be accessed, and should conceal **implementation details** of how that interface is
achieved. Another form of encapsulation is hiding the mechanics of setting an attribute.

So far we have thought of attributes as representing properties of an object, but in reality they are merely a way of
maintaining state between method calls. These two purposes are not always aligned. When we want a variable for
maintaining state, but it doesn't properly represent a property of the object – such as an internal timer or a part of
the object that only has independent meaning within the class – we can use a private attribute. Conversely, we may have
a property of the object that cannot be fully represented by a single variable – for instance, we can't use a simple
attribute to track the colour of a shape if we have to redraw the shape whenever the colour is changed. In this case, we
use dedicated **getter** and **setter** methods.

A getter method is simply a method that returns a property of the object, whether that property is represented with
an attribute or not. A setter method is one that sets a property. The advantage of using methods is that additional
behaviour can be added; when using getter and setter methods, if there is an associated attribute, it should be private
so callers can't get or change the attribute without invoking the additional behaviour.

Encapsulation dictates that we should use getters and setters even if we don't have any additional behaviour, just in
case we want to add any behaviour later. The ultimate conclusion is that all attributes should be private, with access
extended to the protected or public levels only by methods.

Read the code and observe the various getter and setter methods. The naming convention is `get_<attribute>` and
`set_<attribute>`, except for boolean getters which should have yes/no questions as their names, beginning `has`,
`should`, et cetera.
