# Functional programming: standard functions

## Exercise 1 (example)

We've spent the last two chapters restricting what tools we can use. It's about time we add some new ones. First, we
give names to some oft-used functions.

The identity is the function which does nothing: it inputs a single argument and returns it directly. It is often
called `id`; here we borrow from Latin in calling it `idem` to disambiguate from Python's builtin function.

`const` inputs two arguments and returns the first one. It takes the arguments one at a time, so we write
`const(2)(4) ≡ 2` rather than `const(2, 4) ≡ 2`. This makes it easier to apply partially: eg, `const(2)` is the constant
`2` function, which takes a single input and returns `2`. We will extend this idea of easy partial application in a
moment.

The equivalence sign `≡` above asserts equality of expressions, to differentiate from Python's assignment `=` and
comparison `==` operators.

```python3
idem = lambda x: x
const = lambda x: (lambda y: x)
```

Sometimes we want to raise an exception in a functional language. The regular `raise` statement has the clear side
effect of crashing the program, so we look for a pure option. The function `undefined` given by
`undefined(x) ≡ undefined(x)` recurses forever, which is as close as we can get to an exception and will in fact crash
the program by reaching max recursion depth; but `undefined` is more palatable to a mathematician because it has an
explicit mathematical definition.

> If you are thinking, "This still looks like a cheat! I've never seen a true mathematical function defined in terms of
> itself!", then you have good intuition. We will eventually develop a formal language in which to define this
> functions, which will permit `undefined` and recursive functions via the beautiful y-combinator.

The successor function, `succ`, is not quite standard, in the sense that it operates only on numbers rather than general
objects, but it is very simple and we will use it later.

```python3
def undefined(x): return undefined(x)

def succ(n): return n + 1
```
