# Functional programming: standard functions

## Exercise 2 (example)

Recall that functions are first-class citizens in Python: we can input them as arguments and return them as results.
(The definition also included assigning them to variables, but we have done away with those.)

Making use of this we have the higher-order functions: functions which operate on functions. One is composition, written
∘ in mathematics and defined by the identity `(f ∘ g)(x) ≡ f(g(x))`. That is, ∘ takes in two arguments f and g, and
returns the function which, given an argument x, returns `f(g(x))`. Sometimes ∘ is pronounced "after", because it
applies f after g.

> It can be deceptively hard to remember that f is applied after g even though it is written before g. In some branches
> of mathematics where composition is very important, functions are written after their arguments, so that the order
> in which they are written is also the order in which they are applied; but doing this more generally only risks more
> confusion.

For these exercises we will write f ∘ g as `f |compose| g` in code. Brackets are not needed when chaining compositions
together `f |compose| (g |compose| h) ≡ (f |compose| g) |compose| h`, but they are needed when applying the function
that results from composition: `(f |compose| g)(x) ≡ f(g(x))`. If you find it easier, you can write composition as a
regular function by `f |compose| g ≡ compose(f, g)`; but I think the infix notation will prove easier in the long run.

> If it means anything to you, composition is associative and `idem` is the identity of composition, which makes
> the set of functions from any set to itself a monoid under composition. If not, don't worry: we will define this
> later.

I have also defined
```
nfold_compose(f)(n) ≡ f |compose| f |compose| ... f
                      |___________________________|
                                 n times
```
that is, `nfold_compose(f)(n)(x) ≡ f(f(f(... f(x)))... )`. Like with `const`, the arguments are taken one at a time to
make partial application easier.
