# Functional programming: standard functions

## Exercise 5 (example)

### Currying

We defined `const` and `nfold_compose` to take their arguments one at a time. When they receive the first input, they
remember it and return a function that awaits the second input. The functions you transformed in the last two
exercises were also defined this way.

We call such functions **curried**. (The name comes from Haskell Brooks Curry, a computer scientist who is also the
namesake for the prominent functional programming language Haskell.) A function that takes two arguments in a single
parameter list is conversely uncurried.

One advantage of currying is that partial application becomes easier, as long as you are giving the arguments in the
correct order. Another is that it becomes easier to work with higher-order functions. `const(const)` expects three
arguments, one at a time. If `const` were defined as an uncurried function then `partial(const, x=const)` would expect
one argument in its own parameter list and the others together in a second parameter list. For complicated functions,
this would get confusing quickly.

The standard functions `curry` and `uncurry` convert between these two forms.
```python3
curry = lambda f: lambda x: lambda y: f(x, y)
uncurry = lambda f: lambda x, y: f(x)(y)
```
so, eg,
```
uncurry(const)(x, y) ≡ const(x)(y) ≡ x
```

### Composing curried functions

Consider the effect of composition on `const`:
```
(const |compose| const)(x) ≡ const(const(x))
(const |compose| const)(x)(y) ≡ const(const(x))(y) ≡ const(x)
(const |compose| const)(x)(y)(z) ≡ const(const(x))(y)(z) ≡ const(x)(z) ≡ x
```
The composition can be resolved as soon as the first argument is passed in, treating `const` as a function of one
argument. Further arguments can then be passed until the expression evaluates to `x`. Note that uncurried functions
cannot be composed at all: they expect multiple arguments, but can only be given one argument as output from the
function after which they are composed.

Composing curried functions can take a while to get your head around. You can always go back to the definition if you
are stuck.

