# Functional style: variables

## Exercise 3 (example)

By now you may be thinking, "How shall we manage without variables?". But the value associated with an identifier may
still vary, as long as it is between different scopes. For instance, in mathematics, we may write
> f(x) = x²
> g(x) = 4×f(x)

in which the two values of x have different meanings.

If we wish to "update" a variable, therefore, we need only introduce a new scope via a new function. If you have ever
tried to reduce a Python program to a single line, you may have changed
```python3
x = 3
y = 4
print(x + y)
```
to
```python3
print((lambda x, y: x + y)(3, 4))
```
where `x` and `y` are assigned the values `3` and `4` within the lambda.

It is rather frustrating to work like this however, not least because the values assigned to the variables are textually
so far away from the variable names. Python does not have a satisfying solution inherently, but the library from Pure
Functions exercise 1 defines the `let` statement to this effect. An example usage is opposite. (If you try this in an
editor outside of Python Sponge you may see that the syntax highlighter doesn't know that variables defined in a `let`
statement exist, but they will exist at runtime.)

Pure functional languages will have `let` or equivalent innately (and therefore syntax highlighters will recognise it).
Under the hood of a pure functional language, `with let(x=2): <expr>` is syntactic sugar for `(lambda x: <expr>)(2)`
and therefore composed entirely of functions.

> That is, "under the mathematical hood". A compiler would likely interpret a `let` statement similarly to how an
> imperative compiler would interpret variable assignment. With functional languages there are multiple "hoods" to look
> under: one in the direction of mathematical abstraction, and one in the direction of computation. Machine code is the
> most fundamental language computation-wise, but functional languages are the most fundamental mathematics-wise.


Due to technical limitations, if `let` statements are used in a program on Python Sponge, all driver code must be
inside an `if LETS_ENABLED:` block, even sections of code that don't use `let`, to prevent it running twice.
